as young PC Builders you will be tempted
by Sleek shiny options but you mustn't
take the easy path is that the magc mini
awesome Elijah you didn't even try to
resist it it's a $600 computer nothing
even compares to
this and while thousands took to the
online streets to rip into Apple's
outrageous storage pricing it doesn't
change the fact that for the base model
M4 Mac Mini he's right if all you want
to do is email and video conferencing
some light professional work even some
casual gaming $600 seems like an
outright steel for this new machine I
mean heck i' probably recommend it to a
friend who just needed a decent computer
at a fair price so has Apple built the
best system for the 99% to find out
we're going to drag race it against both
a $600 Mini PC and Tower desktop PC
while also discussing some of the pros
and cons that you might gloss over if
you take these devices at face value But
be sure not to gloss over our sponsor
ODU start simplifying your work
processes with an all-in-one platform
for your business learn more about ODU
today by clicking the link in the video
description let's meet our three
computers for malice standing at a
height of 2 in and featuring 10 CPU and
10 GPU cords the Mac Mini will it be
held back by its lack of storage or will
its unified memory deliver a knockout
blow for team PC standing at 2 in tall
the minoram Venus and towering over the
rest at 15 in the cbble together desktop
Tower this machine sure takes up a lot
of room but it's dedicated card means
that when it comes to gaming it means
business there is of course a lot more
to know about each system so here it is
but those are just details for now what
matters is that at the time of ordering
each of these machines came in under
$600 before taxes and shipping which
brings us then without further Ado to
Benchmark number one cinebench in both
single and multicore flavors and go here
we go
oh
God this is not going to be close dude
wow wait it might be a little close oh
this is spinning
up oh it is starting to slow down but
it's still it's not slowing down
much wait wow this pass it wait what
that's very surprising I I am also
surprised what's in here huh that's not
even current gen ryzen if you remember
as well this is normally $150 over our
$600 budget but it was on sale I like
sales so it's kind of you know being a
little bit of a cheater here by joining
the lower weight class anyway while
these run let's talk about Apple's new
M4 silicon compared to last year's M3
Apple's added two more efficiency cores
they have more than doubled the number
of operations that their neural engine
can complete per second and they have
increased the memory bandwidth of their
already f F unified memory by 20%
perhaps most importantly though compared
to their most recent Mac Mini which had
an M2 processor and even compared to
their other M3 devices Apple has doubled
the memory capacity of the base
configuration from just 8 GB to 16 now I
have no doubt that the most tab hungry
of you could easily make use of more but
we've at least reached the point where
I'm not uncomfortable recommending a
base configuration so good job app
and good job on the processor itself
we'll talk about performance in a second
but first I want to talk about Energy
Efficiency look at this thing here's all
three machines running the same load
except the M4 is using a fraction of the
power of the other two for a desktop
obviously this level of efficiency
matters less than it does in a phone or
a thin and light laptop but less power
consumption means less heat output and
quieter operation you can see even even
when it's running a
test does it even have a
fan oh yeah it does wow is it ever quiet
though and enough fawning though let's
take a look at the performance and wow
the desktop and the Mac Mini are
shockingly close in multicore but what's
really surprising to me is how far out
ahead that mini Forum pulls two extra
performance cores goes a long way for
the multi-core but does that hold up for
single core let's see three two
one and now we
wait a
while I mean technically we don't have
the final result but we have enough of
it where the M4 really excels is
single-threaded performance which is one
of the things that contributes to Apple
silicon machines feeling so responsive
and snappy even the first generation
ones which seems to have become a bit of
a drag on Apple sales you talk to an M1
Mac owner and they're like
upgrade why who needs to upgrade wait
there's one right now I have two M1 Mac
Air M1 and Max studio M1 Max what's the
reason for oper let's move on to our
next test here we're going to Target the
GPU using blender to render the
classroom test scene and go go okay what
are we expecting oh dedicated GPU turns
out having one of those that's a thing
but an outstanding integrated GPU it's
doing much better than this one that's a
thing too uh yeah he was
invited oh wait is that Frozen uh oh no
there it goes a minute yeah okay that's
about 12 seconds slower than our Tower
PC but a lot faster than this is this
even done yet uh no it has quite a ways
to go good Lord now In fairness 3050 not
exactly the most impressive GPU to be
almost on par with but when we consider
that this is on board it's pretty darn
impressive however custom form factor
machines like this are giving up a lot
in terms of upgradeability in the long
term which makes them a pretty
questionable value if GPU performance is
a priority not just today but in the
future because this 3050
we can get rid of it throw something
else in there and we're going to be even
faster all right movie Magic cut final
score just under four minutes wow the
Mac Mini is just a quarter the time and
you've got to give it credit it's just
so cute which like it or not is a
significant factor for some people when
they're choosing a computer now before
we get to gaming let's take a look at a
large language model specifically llama
how about we have them each write 10
high cus about our Tech bro vest now
available on LTT store.com I was the
medium labeled Elijah no offense but I
don't think so bro what you're taller
than me and wider I don't think I'm an
XL though I give you an XL yeah wow you
really do look like budget s bman freed
now screw
off ready go this is the same test we
used back in our 50 versus $50,000
computer video and while I don't expect
as big of a difference on these three
machines today it is an opportunity for
us to talk about one of Apple's biggest
advantages if there happens to be an AI
workload that utilizes GPU memory the
typical wisdom has been sure no problem
just slap some high-capacity gpus like a
Quadro into your system but with Apple's
unified memory the sfc is able to
dynamically adjust how much RAM each
section has access to whether it's the
CPU the GPU or in this case Apple's
neural Eng
Faded Glory worn my love for Tech still
shines through all vest is my heart Tech
bro flare that won't be beat are you
rolling on this this is freaking
ridiculous look the quality is not what
we're using to evaluate them here
because they're all using the same model
so theoretically they should be about
the same what we're interested in is the
speed and if you guys were looking over
my shoulder you'll have seen that the M4
absolutely destroyed the others so
unless you're a Data Center and you need
need the absolute best in AI performance
and you're willing to spend millions of
dollars to get it one of these with a
little ram upgrade might be the better
choice for you although Ram upgrades on
this are a pretty big room elephant yes
my friends we saw the Reddit post that
you could buy two base model Mac minis
for the price of one that has twice as
much RAM and storage in it apple is
still pricing their storage at the
literal weight of gold old which is an
awful value another sore spot for some
is the power button which is not only
now on the bottom of the machine but at
the back of the bottom with those two
things aside though there's no denying
that the machine we're reviewing which
is the base model absolutely kicks but
for the price but does it hold up in
gaming while Apple silicon has the raw
grunt to put up decent gaming
performance numbers compatibility
continues to be a struggle now of course
most Mac users aren't going to expect to
play the latest tripa game so we're just
using shadow of the Tomb Raider as a
tool to measure the performance of the
GPU in a different way and also to enjoy
the onboard speaker that actually sounds
a lot better than not having a speaker
at
all it's not a fair okay that's fair I
guess what it what it is yeah oh wow
what's also not fair is having a
dedicated GPU
apparently dude this poor thing
yeah even this one though it's it
started before let it let Tim
Cook
hey
huh of course the Mac couldn't hold a
candle to our mid Tower PC but In
fairness to it it held up quite well
against a last generation AMD onboard
GPU and I know some of you are going to
say well AMD has newer ones and like
that's nice but
we're looking at Price comparables here
not generation
comparables so what's our conclusion
then mid Tower PC
wins I don't think it's that simple no
it really isn't is it I mean on the one
hand uh good job with the high FPS there
buddy but on the other hand there's a
lot more to life than gaming and our M4
mini excels in areas that our custom PC
Falls flat in now if you're the average
LTT viewer the size relatively High
noise and power consumption and the
inconvenience of digging through PC part
picker for the best deals and then
assembling everything that's all part of
the fun rather than a burden and totally
worth it for the upgradeability and
customizability of a machine like this
but if your mom phones you up and she
wants help troubleshooting this thing
wouldn't you rather just send her to Tim
Apple's house for help and I didn't even
mention it has a headphone jack and
Thunderbolt this thing is sick now the
upgraded configs suck and apple really
needs to give their Collective heads a
shake but this base model for $600 is
every bit as good as it seems on paper
if someone you know wants a computer on
a budget ask them what it's for and if
you don't hear gaming I think that the
mini PCS take the Victory and if that
user happens to already own an ie device
the Mac Mini gets a pretty big boost the
workflow of like airdropping and using
iCloud between devices really is kind of
magic sometimes
just like this magic spell to take you
to our sponsor ODU are you tired of
wasting time juggling multiple apps with
ODU you get everything your business
needs in one platform from accounting
and CRM to sales and Beyond ODU offers
tons of apps that work seamlessly
together no more copying files between
different pieces of software it's like
having all of your tools in one magic
toolbox need to speed up your sales
process ODU sales app lets you easily
add e signatures to quotations contracts
and PDFs they even have ai powered lead
scoring to help your team focus on high
value opportunities once you close the
deal you can use their accounting app to
create and send invoices and when it's
time to go home you can make sure your
hours are logged properly thanks to
their time sheet app the best part is
you can pick and choose only the apps
that your business needs and if you only
need one Standalone app you can access
it for free so don't wait check out ODU
at the link in the description for a
free 15-day trial or to set up a demo
with their expert team thanks for
watching if you guys liked this video
why don't you check out the $10,000 Mac
Pro killer that we made almost a year
ago Apple definitely doesn't perform as
well when you start going up into the
higher price range